when my father and I started a company
to 3d print human tissues and organs
some people initially thought we were a
little crazy but since then much
progress has been made both in our lab
and other labs around the world and
given this we started getting questions
like if you can grow human body parts
can you also grow animal products like
meat and leather when someone first
suggested this to me quite frankly I
thought they were a little crazy but
what I soon came to realize was that
this is not so crazy after all what's
crazy is what we do today I'm convinced
that in 30 years when we look back on
today and on how we raise and slaughter
billions of animals to make our
hamburgers and our handbags we'll see
this as being wasteful and indeed crazy
did you know that today we maintain a
global herd of 60 billion animals to
provide our meat dairy eggs and leather
goods and over the next few decades as
the world's population expands to 10
billion this will need to nearly double
to a hundred billion animals but
maintaining this herd takes a major toll
on our planet animals are not just raw
materials they're living beings and
already our livestock is one of the
largest users of land fresh water and
one of the biggest producers of
greenhouse gases which drive climate
change on top of this when you get so
many animals so close together it
creates a breeding ground for disease
and opportunities for harm and abuse
clearly we cannot continue on this path
which puts the environment public health
and food security at risk there is
another way because essentially animal
products are just collection
of tissues and right now we breed and
raise highly complex animals only to
create products that are made of
relatively simple tissues what if
instead of starting with a complex and
sentient animal we started at what the
tissues are made of the basic unit of
life the cell
this is biofabrication where cells
themselves can be used to grow
biological products like tissues and
organs already in medicine
biofabrication techniques have been used
to grow sophisticated body parts like
ears wind pipes skin blood vessels and
bone that have been successfully
implanted into patients and beyond
medicine biofabrication can be a humane
sustainable and scalable new industry
and we should begin by reimagining
leather I emphasize leather because it
is so widely used it is beautiful and it
has long been a part of our history
growing leather is also technically
simpler than growing other animal
products like meat it mainly uses one
cell type and it is largely
two-dimensional it is also less
polarizing for consumers and regulators
until biofabrication is better
understood it is clear that initially at
least more people would be willing to
wear novel materials then would be
willing to eat novel foods no matter how
delicious in this sense
leather is a gateway material a
beginning for the Maine's mainstream bio
fabrication industry if we can succeed
here it brings our other consumer bio
products like meat closer on the horizon
now how do we do it to grow leather we
begin by taking cells from an animal
through a simple biopsy the animal could
be a cow lamb or even something more
exotic this process does no harm and
Daisy the cow can live a happy life
we then I
relate the skin cells and multiply them
in a cell culture medium this takes
millions of cells and expands them into
billions and we then coax these cells to
produce collagen as they would naturally
this collagen is the stuff between cells
it's natural connective tissue it's it's
the extracellular matrix but in the in
leather it's the main building block and
we what we next do is we take the cells
and their collagen and we spread them
out to form sheets and then we layer
these thin sheets on top of one another
like phyllo pastry to form thicker
sheets which we then let mature and
finally we take this multi-layered skin
and through a shorter and much less
chemical tanning process we create
leather and so I'm very excited to show
you for the first time the first batch
of our cultured leather fresh from the
lab this is real genuine leather without
the animal sacrifice it can have all the
characteristics of leather because it is
made of the same cells and better yet
there is no hair to remove no scars or
insects bites and no waste this leather
can be grown in the shape of a wallet a
handbag or a car seat it is not limited
to the irregular shape of a cow or an
alligator and because we make this
material we grow this leather from the
ground up we can control its properties
in very interesting ways this piece of
leather is a mere 7 tissue layers thick
and as you can see it is nearly
transparent and this leather is 21
layers thick and quite opaque you don't
have that kind of fine control with
conventional leather and we can tune
this leather for other desirable
qualities like softness breathability
durability elasticity
and even things like pattern we can
mimic nature but in some ways also
improve upon it this type of leather can
do what today's leather does but with
imagination probably much more
what could the future of animal products
look like it need not look like this
which is actually the state of the art
today
rather it could be much more like this
already we have been manufacturing with
cell cultures for thousands of years
beginning with products like wine beer
and yogurt and speaking of food our
cultured food has evolved and today we
prepare a cultured food and beautiful
sterile facilities like this a brewery
is essentially a bioreactor it is where
cell culture takes place imagine that in
this facility instead of brewing beer we
were brewing leather or meat imagine
touring this facility learning about how
the leather or meat is cultured seeing
the process from beginning to end and
even trying some it's clean open and
educational and this is in contrast to
the hidden guarded and remote factories
where leather and meat is produced today
perhaps biofabrication is a natural
evolution of manufacturing for mankind
it's environmentally responsible
efficient and humane it allows us to be
creative we can design new materials new
products and new facilities we need to
move past just killing animals as a
resource to something more civilized and
evolved perhaps we are ready for
something literally and figuratively
more cultured thank you
[Applause]
[Music]